8 Every day Mr. Washington and the two young men went hunting or fishing in the deep forests or played golf around the somnolent course—games which John diplomatically allowed his host to win—or swam in the mountain coolness of the lake. John found Mr. Washington a somewhat exacting personality—utterly uninterested in any ideas or opinions except his own. Mrs. Washington was aloof and reserved at all times. She was apparently indifferent to her two daughters, and entirely absorbed in her son Percy, with whom she held interminable conversations in rapid Spanish at dinner. Jasmine, the elder daughter, resembled Kismine in appearance—except that she was somewhat bow–legged, and terminated in large hands and feet—but was utterly unlike her in temperament. Her favourite books had to do with poor girls who kept house for widowed fathers. John learned from Kismine that Jasmine had never recovered from the shock and disappointment caused her by the termination of the World War, just as she was about to start for Europe as a canteen expert. She had even pined away for a time, and Braddock Washington had taken steps to promote a new war in the Balkans—but she had seen a photograph of some wounded Serbian soldiers and lost interest in the whole proceedings. But Percy and Kismine seemed to have inherited the arrogant attitude in all its harsh magnificence from their father. A chaste and consistent selfishness ran like a pattern through their every idea. John was enchanted by the wonders of the ch‰teau and the valley. Braddock Washington, so Percy told him, had caused to be kidnapped a landscape gardener, an architect, a designer of state settings, and a French decadent poet left over from the last century. He had put his entire force of negroes at their disposal, guaranteed to supply them with any materials that the world could offer, and left them to work out some ideas of their own. But one by one they had shown their uselessness. The decadent poet had at once begun bewailing his separation, from the boulevards in spring—he made some vague remarks about spices, apes, and ivories, but said nothing that was of any practical value. The stage designer on his part wanted to make the whole valley a series of tricks and sensational effects—a state of things that the Washingtons would soon have grown tired of. And as for the architect and the landscape gardener, they thought only in terms of convention. They must make this like this and that like that. But they had, at least, solved the problem of what was to be done with them—they all went mad early one morning after spending the night in a single room trying to agree upon the location of a fountain, and were now confined comfortably in an insane asylum at Westport, Connecticut. "But," inquired John curiously, "who did plan all your wonderful reception rooms and halls, and approaches and bathrooms—–?" "Well," answered Percy, "I blush to tell you, but it was a moving–picture fella. He was the only man we found who was used to playing with an unlimited amount of money, though he did tuck his napkin in his collar and couldn't read or write." As August drew to a close John began to regret that he must soon go back to school. He and Kismine had decided to elope the following June. "It would be nicer to be married here," Kismine confessed, "but of course I could never get father's permission to marry you at all. Next to that I'd rather elope. It's terrible for wealthy people to be married in America at present—they always have to send out bulletins to the press saying that they're going to be married in remnants, when what they mean is just a peck of old second–hand pearls and some used lace worn once by the Empress Eugenie." "I know," agreed John fervently. "When I was visiting the Schnlitzer–Murphys, the eldest daughter, Gwendolyn, married a man whose father owns half of West Virginia. She wrote home saying what a tough struggle she was carrying on on his salary as a bank clerk—and then she ended up by saying that 'Thank God, I have four good maids anyhow, and that helps a little.'" "It's absurd," commented Kismine—"Think of the millions and millions of people in the world, labourers and all, who get along with only two maids." One afternoon late in August a chance remark of Kismine's changed the face of the entire situation, and threw John into a state of terror. They were in their favourite grove, and between kisses John was indulging in some romantic forebodings which he fancied added poignancy to their relations. "Sometimes I think we'll never marry," he said sadly. "You're too wealthy, too magnificent. No one as rich as you are can be like other girls. I should marry the daughter of some well–to–do wholesale hardware man from Omaha or Sioux City, and be content with her half–million." "I knew the daughter of a wholesale hardware man once," remarked Kismine. "I don't think you'd have been contented with her. She was a friend of my sister's. She visited here." "Oh, then you've had other guests?" exclaimed John in surprise. Kismine seemed to regret her words. "Oh, yes," she said hurriedly, "we've had a few." "But aren't you—wasn't your father afraid they'd talk outside?" "Oh, to some extent, to some extent," she answered, "Let's talk about something pleasanter." But John's curiosity was aroused. "Something pleasanter!" he demanded. "What's unpleasant about that? Weren't they nice girls?" To his great surprise Kismine began to weep. "Yes—th—that's the—the whole t–trouble. I grew qu–quite attached to some of them. So did Jasmine, but she kept inv–viting them anyway. I couldn't under_stand it." A dark suspicion was born in John's heart. "Do you mean that they told, and your father had them—removed?" "Worse than that," she muttered brokenly. "Father took no chances—and Jasmine kept writing them to come, and they had such a good time!" She was overcome by a paroxysm of grief. Stunned with the horror of this revelation, John sat there open–mouthed, feeling the nerves of his body twitter like so many sparrows perched upon his spinal column. "Now, I've told you, and I shouldn't have," she said, calming suddenly and drying her dark blue eyes. "Do you mean to say that your father had them murdered before they left?" She nodded. "In August usually—or early in September. It's only natural for us to get all the pleasure out of them that we can first." "How abominable! How—why, I must be going crazy! Did you really admit that—" "I did," interrupted Kismine, shrugging her shoulders. "We can't very well imprison them like those aviators, where they'd be a continual reproach to us every day. And it's always been made easier for Jasmine and me, because father had it done sooner than we expected. In that way we avoided any farewell scene–" "So you murdered them! Uh!" cried John. "It was done very nicely. They were drugged while they were asleep—and their families were always told that they died of scarlet fever in Butte." "But—I fail to understand why you kept on inviting them!" "I didn't," burst out Kismine. "I never invited one. Jasmine did. And they always had a very good time. She'd give them the nicest presents toward the last. I shall probably have visitors too—I'll harden up to it. We can't let such an inevitable thing as death stand in the way of enjoying life while we have it. Think of how lonesome it'd be out here if we never had any one. Why, father and mother have sacrificed some of their best friends just as we have." "And so," cried John accusingly, "and so you were letting me make love to you and pretending to return it, and talking about marriage, all the time knowing perfectly well that I'd never get out of here alive—–" "No," she protested passionately. "Not any more. I did at first. You were here. I couldn't help that, and I thought your last days might as well be pleasant for both of us. But then I fell in love with you, and—and I'm honestly sorry you're going to—going to be put away—though I'd rather you'd be put away than ever kiss another girl." "Oh, you would, would you?" cried John ferociously. "Much rather. Besides, I've always heard that a girl can have more fun with a man whom she knows she can never marry. Oh, why did I tell you? I've probably spoiled your whole good time now, and we were really enjoying things when you didn't know it. I knew it would make things sort of depressing for you." "Oh, you did, did you?" John's voice trembled with anger. "I've heard about enough of this. If you haven't any more pride and decency than to have an affair with a fellow that you know isn't much better than a corpse, I don't want to have any more to with you!" "You're not a corpse!" she protested in horror. "You're not a corpse! I won't have you saying that I kissed a corpse!" "I said nothing of the sort!" "You did! You said I kissed a corpse!" "I didn't!" Their voices had risen, but upon a sudden interruption they both subsided into immediate silence. Footsteps were coming along the path in their direction, and a moment later the rose bushes were parted displaying Braddock Washington, whose intelligent eyes set in his good–looking vacuous face were peering in at them. "Who kissed a corpse?" he demanded in obvious disapproval. "Nobody," answered Kismine quickly. "We were just joking." "What are you two doing here, anyhow?" he demanded gruffly. "Kismine, you ought to be—to be reading or playing golf with your sister. Go read! Go play golf! Don't let me find you here when I come back!" Then he bowed at John and went up the path. "See?" said Kismine crossly, when he was out of hearing. "You've spoiled it all. We can never meet any more. He won't let me meet you. He'd have you poisoned if he thought we were in love." "We're not, any more!" cried John fiercely, "so he can set his mind at rest upon that. Moreover, don't fool yourself that I'm going to stay around here. Inside of six hours I'll be over those mountains, if I have to gnaw a passage through them, and on my way East." They had both got to their feet, and at this remark Kismine came close and put her arm through his. "I'm going, too." "You must be crazy—" "Of course I'm going," she interrupted impatiently. "You most certainly are not. You—" "Very well," she said quietly, "we'll catch up with father and talk it over with him." Defeated, John mustered a sickly smile. "Very well, dearest," he agreed, with pale and unconvincing affection, "we'll go together." His love for her returned and settled placidly on his heart. She was his—she would go with him to share his dangers. He put his arms about her and kissed her fervently. After all she loved him; she had saved him, in fact. Discussing the matter, they walked slowly back toward the ch‰teau. They decided that since Braddock Washington had seen them together they had best depart the next night. Nevertheless, John's lips were unusually dry at dinner, and he nervously emptied a great spoonful of peacock soup into his left lung. He had to be carried into the turquoise and sable card–room and pounded on the back by one of the under–butlers, which Percy considered a great joke.