	Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it,  
	So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of making a daisy chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.
	There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself,  hole under the hedge.
	In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how in the world she was to get out again.
	The rabbit hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very deep well.
	Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book , but to her great disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.
	  (Which was very likely true.)
	Down, down, down. Would the fall NEVER come to an end!   (Alice had no idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say.)
	Presently she began again.  
	Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began talking again.   when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.
	Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment: she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it. There was not a moment to be lost: away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner,   She was close behind it when she turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.
	There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked; and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to get out again.
	Suddenly she came upon a little three  but, alas! either the locks were too large, or the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high: she tried the little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!
	Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not much larger than a rat way things had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible.
	There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes: this time she found a little bottle on it, (  beautifully printed on it in large letters.
	It was all very well to say   it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or later.
	However, this bottle was NOT marked  apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished it off.
	And so it was indeed: she was now only ten inches high, and her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into that lovely garden. First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further: she felt a little nervous about this;   And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember ever having seen such a thing.
	After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when she got to the door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and cried.
	Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table: she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on which the words  
	She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself,  way things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.
	So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.
