PART I MORNING Summer Flames The Bob White calls! Hear him usher in the day. “Bob White!... Day’s bright! Hustle up and join his lay; “All right!—Bob White;” Follow down his dewy way: “Bob White,—you’re right!— It’s sure enough—a brand new day!” A day when dreams may come to be: A day the floods that surge in me May swell the banks of Always-So And in to fields of Strived-For flow. The Mocker trills! Hear him fill the air with glee. Why not mock!—Just as he! Puncture woe with melody! —Say…scat—like—that" —(See that moody cat-bird flee!)&mdash The Mocker trills. An echo thrills:— “There’s joy for birds—why not for me!” There’s joys have always wondered why I’ve never looked as I passed by. Sing ho! for joys long-patient, kind:&mdas; But what of the ones I’ve left behind? Hibiscus glow! Poinciana sets the day a-flare. See the coral creeper’s show! Catch the Myrtle’s crimson dare! In flow’rs alone must red love flow? Should plant and tree, unaided, bear A-flaunt the banner love would blow! O, Heart asleep’—Awake! And glow! With the red of the Corals, Love beckons to me; In flashing hibiscus her fires I see; Through flaming acacia I know it is so —My Love, She will come! Her flame I shall know! Part II MID-DAY The Secret Shrine And still the sun swoons down the cotton, Hushed, Expectant, quails the corn. Old hopes fail: Yet, unforgotten, In faintness dream of dewy morn. Now, the gushing, red-crape myrtle: Fateful, still,—the buzzard lone: Is there naught within can hurtle Far,—a crushing weight of stone? Fools still see our clouds fair mountains; Dreaming, deem our skies gem-blue: Know they not life’s colour fountains Found their spring in heart of you? What are pines bemoaning ever? Why the bamboos’ ceaseless sigh? Will the palm leaves call forever:— Endless; yearning aigrettes cry? The call, that North-birds autumn-hearing Brings winging back to southern sea, Is stronger far my heart’s a-fearing Than the call my soul yields to thee. And so; though swoons the drooping cotton: —Low, old Nature’s woes intone;— Remains a shrine by all forgotten: There I sit and brood alone. PART III EVENING Inviolable At evening I wander alone to the sea. The breakers that come bring solace to me; And scarcely the gulls take trouble to flee Away from my goal. Yet, Evening turns somewhere within me a key: And opens a room; A secret deep room, Far-hid in the house of my soul. And nothing of land its answer can hold; There’s nothing of Nature so flaming and bold: And strange though it be, there’s nothing so old In sea or in sky As the questions and dreamings that endless unfold From out of that room;— That sweet-keeping room, That seems older that I. But sometimes my sea beneath the night blue ‘Comes a mirror for souls to see through. ...And once did I dream that my love was quite new! ...But now do I know ‘Tis older than life; ‘Tis the key and clew That opens my room; And keeps the deep room A sweet place where none other may go.