To the south lie the magical mountains, That half circling the horizon rise; The mystical, magical, faraway mountains,— In the depth of the tropical skies. They are fairer than mountains are ever In the lands of a gloomier sun; Their peaks,—like visions mirage-like,—forever— Are as goals that may never be won. Like the mountains of enchanted story; Or the pictured Delectable range,— They are clothed in a tremulous glamourous glory Through wondrous virginal change. In the morn,— faint dim in the azure— As a mind-haunting dream-thought they lie; Elusive, intangible,—trance-born,—they measure An infinite depth in the sky. ‘Neath the spell of tropical beaming, Their dream-merging tracings upon, —As impelled by a pulsing supernal,—their seeming Is nearer, mysteriously drawn. Ever fairer, and nearer, and clearer, —Like a dream coming consciously true,— As from out a fairy-like wonderful mirror, Their peak-lines emerge from the blue. And at last o’er the shimmering fountains, Lying sparkling and gleaming between, Rise the clear-imaged heights of the magical mountains, All enclothed in a glamourous sheen. As I gaze on their mystical splendor, From the palm-grove beside of the sea; I glimpse of a land where the fancy may enter But never the spirit may be. Of a land where the colors are golden, And of snowy and heavenly white; Where the lustrous dreaming in which it is holden Never is darkened with shadings of night. But radiant for always—and ever, In pure supernatural rays; Fleecy white always blending with golden,—forever, Through changeless monotonous days. And serene; unaffected with sadness, Or the pulsings that earth beauty mar: Yet never enlightened with tingeings of gladness: —For nothing but Fancies there are! And the fancy delights in that leisure Of those mountains where peace ever reigns: —But their magical, mystical, glamourous treasure Holds a calmness the spirit disdains.— So they lie in the glimmerings golden; Untroubled and calm—far-away—: In a fanciful lustrous beauty enfolden Through the dreamy-long, tropic day… At the day-close, the magical mountains   Fade away in a golden-like haze,— And no glimpsings are left ‘bove the darkening fountains   And no tracings through the swift-falling maze… I would not dwell in the magical mountains,   Where never the golden light dies;— For, ‘tis joy of the fancy,—and none of the spirit,—those mountains   In the depth of the tropical skies.