Three thousand miles, and more, they march,   —White Armies of the North! And in their wake where dead up-arch   Ensanguined hues flare forth. Unchecked; they sweep from Arctic Bay   —Where first they blustered forth; And south-ward flames their bloodhued way;   Red Armies of the North! Through helpless shiv’ring stricken land   Southward rolls their march. On mountain rocks; by river sand;   The dying brown and parch. Three thousand miles they march, and more;   No army dares stand forth To battle wage on northern floor   —With Armies of the North! Not one within their path they spare:   No tiny flutt’ring life, They leave high-arched aisles a-flare:   Slim throats they put to knife. Their victims fall, thick-lain, to earth   In mounds of dying red. Each flaring waste holds fearful dearth   Of else but heaping dead. They leave no little humble home:   But, all, as prey acclaim. —Tall spire and sweeping templed dome   Burst in consuming flame. Their white, deep-steeped, glares fateful forth.   Rapacious, still, for more Encarmined Armies of the North   Stretch south-ward hands of gore. Three thousand miles they march, and more,   From out their frigid North.— ...But ambushed fate is waiting for   Red Armies of the North! For, See!... From hot West Indian lands   Green-clad armies north-ward fare! Calm, silent, unobtrusive bands   Green-swarm from jungle lair. The green-plumed host, though witting well   The force of jealous spleen, Surge north-ward—one green-tossing swell—   Heroic Armies of the Green! Where other Norther armies reeled   From Seminole’s rude hank, The palm-hued hordes, now, choose the field   To ambush,—fore and flank. The gray-green moss, in cunning keen,   Hides countless warring head That swarming spring from Jungles green   On Armies of the Red. Surrounded: stunned by cunning shock:   The blood-hued minions fight. Green-armoured warriors ceaseless flock   To choke Red-flaring blight. And fierce the silent battle flows   Where live—and north-oak meet. High-ridged tongues of angry glows   Pierce ambushed green-flung beat. But reinforcements to the Green   Palmetto-clothed spring forth: All, sisal-shod—with bay’nets keen,   Halt Armies of the North! Past cypress swamp; by oak-grown hill   Red Armies struggle through To palm-green vales; nor flee—until   Palms view a Waterloo. Yet, further south, Reds,—dying,—strive!   —Green=fronded trumpets blare! The victims,—last, of Red Horde’s drive   Sparse, exiled maples flare. Green-fronded arms in triumph wave!   Green-tossing plumes fling high! ...The gray-green moss for vanquished brave   Breathes low, magnan’mous sigh. Three thousand miles they marched, and more;   —Red—Armies of the North! Green-held: their southward drive is o’er:   Fled—Armies of the North!