I I’ve wandered quite a bit   Far lands and countries o’er: In gentle climes I’ve picked rare fruits;   And dallied pleasing hours By murm’ring brooks, I’ve dreamed far thought:   And picked the fairest flowers: Yet—   There’s a land that always calls me   —And that draws me more and more Where the Oleander grows:   —And the bright Poinsettia glows:— And the trade-wind blows—   On the coral-jewelled margin     Of the biscayne Shore.   II Far North where I was born   Great mountains sun-ward soar. And rushing rivers ceaseless roll   Where leagues of fir-trees stand. The snows of old upon those peaks   Forever chill the land. But—   There’s a Shore I know—that draws me   And that warms me all the more!— Where the gumbo-limbo grows:—   And the little lizards doze— Where the trade-wind blows   Through the palm-tufted curvings     Of the Biscayne shore.   III I’ve gazed in fearsome awe   Where floods all mighty pour To roaring depths. And I have seen   Old Nature shift her winter screen, And all the world that was so dead   Flash forth in faery green. Still—   There’s a something always brings me   To the Land of mystic lore:— Where the Poinciana glows:—   And the lotus flowers close— Where the trade-wind blows   O’er the silver-sprinkled ledges     Of the Biscayne shore.   IV In far lost lands I’ve heard   The songs of sirens store. O’er desert sands I’ve trailed in quest   Of that which satisfies:— Forgotten seas I’ve fruitless sailed:   —’Neath flaming southern skies— Till:   ‘Last I found my quested mooring;   And my search for e’er is o’er Where the red hibiscus grows:   —And the fragrant twilight glows— Where the trade-wind blows   O’er the opalescent shallows     Of the Biscayne shore.   V I’ve breathed: I’ve drank: I’ve dreamed:—   Of gifts the Magi bore— But in each spell I’ve felt the lack   Of that which is the soul Of inmost wealth: It’s satisfying core.   Of dreams—my dearest goal Lies—   In th eLand whose beauty draws me   Where my dreams fare wide no more: Where the coral creeper glows:   —’Midst the plumes the Fairy sows— And the trade-wind blows   O’er the coral-treasured ledges     Of the Biscayne shore.   VI Of heav’n I’ve had a glimpse:   —(Not Revelations lore)— But I have mused beneath the palms,   Through fragrant-falling haze: That God could make right here a heaven By only willing endless days.   For—   With eternity for living,   Who could dream of asking more! Where the phosphorescence flows:   —And the heart small sorrow knows— And the trade-wind blows   On the golden-fruited islands     —Of the Biscayne shore.